Hey guys, welcome back. Ready to spend some time going deep down the rabbit hole with this monster called Instagram?
Well, OK.
So what we're going to do in this lecture is we're going
to start making a list of all the accounts that are
in our space and then we'll categorize them based on if they are directly competing with us, indirectly, or just adjacently.
Here's what I mean by direct, indirect, and adjacent.
Let's say we have a shop that sells travelwear
for when people travel on airplanes.
OK, like that hoodie that was on Kickstarter
that made a lot of money because it
had all these travel features in it.
I think it was either that or on Indiegogo,
but it was one of the biggest ones ever.
Let's say that you were going to make a themed account, and the theme was going to be about weird things that happen on planes.
Now, believe me, there's plenty of
weird stuff that goes on on planes.
You've got emotional support peacocks,
pantless old people, drunks in the bathroom...
...whatever.
Plenty of material there. Now a directly competing account
would be one that's doing the exact same thing as you.
For example, there's an account called Passenger
Shaming, and they just show passengers being terrible
people, and they have over half a million followers just from that.
That's actually a direct competitor.
Now, what would be an indirect?
Well, I generally consider an indirect an account that targets
the same people but delivers a different kind of content.
So an account that just posts happy
passengers leaving in airports,
that's roughly the same target audience,
but the material is completely different.
They're both targeting travelers, but
one's about what happens on planes,
and the other one is just a theme
about people being happy going on trips.
One version is going for that mushy feely stuff, and
you were really more going for the gags and funnies.
Or let's say that the account that we found actually
just shows off how nice first class compartments are.
You know, that place that you briefly get to glance
at before being shuffled back to cattle class.
In that case, they're going for travelers again,
but their content is just different.
It's going for "we show you nice things,"
so it's a entirely different kind of vibe to it.
Now, the last category is adjacent, and that just
means anyone in the travel or airplane travel space
that doesn't fit into other categories. An account that rates,
let's say, airplane lounges would be considered adjacent.
They're taking first class customers and business
travelers most likely. An account that posts the cheapest
flight fares every single day, I'd also consider adjacent.
They're clearly in the travel space.
People who travel on planes probably would care,
but they're not targeting the exact same people who
are doing the exact same thing.
Honestly, do not get hung up about these names.
They're just really cheap and easy labels that I think are
useful, and honestly, I mean, you can go without them.
I just think it's useful to categorize them this way
because later on we're going to look at which ones
are complimentary to what we're doing, because it's
going to help us with promotion. It also helps to
just sort it so that you can check in on your direct
competitors and see what they're posting, what's
working, and see if there's any type of content gaps.
Now, what we want to do though is start digging around Instagram and the good old Google for accounts that are in that space.
So, first things first, let's get a Google sheet
going where we can store our stuff.
I'm just going to call this one "Instagram related
accounts", because I'm great at naming things.
Then, in the section below, let's put our three categories,
and make sure that you obviously leave space
for the accounts you are going to list out.
Also, I'm going to write out a more formal description
of the section so that when I go back to this
later on, some night in a drunken haze, I can still remember
what I was talking about when I labeled everything like this.
Sweet, okay.
In the columns ,we're going to put first followers, then
daily posts, then comments. Now, the first column
is pretty easy. We're just going to put the total account
followers you see at the top of their profile.
That's helpful because then you can just see how big the account is at a glance, clearly they're doing something right.
Daily posts is the next column.
What we're going to do is when we find an account, we're going
to go to their posts and then just look at the time stamp.
Now, if you go to a post, you just click on it, and it's
right below the image, you'll see when it was posted.
Now, for that day, or, you know, depending on when
in the day you do this, we're going to look at the time
stamp below the photo and then see
how many there are for that day.
We don't need to average it out,
that's too time intensive.
We just need to have a rough guess.
Typically, an account that posts 10 times a day
is going to do that pretty consistently.
So even if it's like an off day when they
posted seven, it's still posting a lot.
If you want, you can just put total posts instead
for the column, because that's easier to collect,
but in reality it's just not as accurate.
We don't really know how old the accounts are.
So saying total posts doesn't really... You know, 100 posts over the last month is quite a bit different than over the last four years.
Anyway, last column is comments, and this is optional.
I just find it useful to put first thoughts here or things
you like about the accounts for quick reference later on.
It's impossible really to remember all of the accounts,
so if you write "they're doing the exact same thing
as I am" you'll know, hey, that's the guy that I have to
impersonate and eventually murder, and then take
their place without anyone noticing,
even their parents. We're talking about accounts.
Now that we have this set up, let's just jump into the
app, and to think, Instagram, I was
actually feeling good about myself.
Now, time to crush it by looking at other
people's curated vacations. In the app,
we just have a very manual process to do this.
First, we need to think of some keywords that people
might use to find our account, then we'll try those
in search and in hashtags. Once we find an account,
we'll copy it down in our sheet, and then press on the
little button arrow where Instagram shows us the
suggested accounts that they think are in the same space.
Now, it's not always right, but it's going
off of follower's preferences.
Since Instagram gives us virtually no data ever,
we kind of just have to trust them.
OK, so I just go to the search section and then we just
want to see if we can find something in the travel
space, and then use that as a jumping
off point to look at other stuff.
OK, so I just go and click Search here,
and then up at the top in Search I'm just going to search for probably just travel, I'm going to show you how this works.
Travel... I wouldn't go to People, just so I'm not looking at random things I don't want to see. Elevator Travel, let's try that one.
They have a quarter million followers.
What you can see right here is there's a down
arrow right next to the follow, you click that, and
then it gives you suggestions.
So right here it's like a huge cache of potential travel accounts.
And I could just have to figure out
whether or not these match what I'm doing.
I mean, most of these are going to be adjacent, because
it looks like they're just showing destinations, which
is just not what I'm doing.
So I could do something closer to what I'm thinking of,
so you could do travelwear, or you can do airplanes.
so you could do "travelwear," or you can do "airplanes."
Right.
So for travelwear, if I want to go in that direction, I'm
going to look for one that actually looks like it posts.
So here is a company 3,000 travelwear, cool, then it's
going to show me individuals who are in this space,
so I could probably spend time looking through that.
OK, if I wanted to do what the actual thing was, which was
airplanes, if I just type in "airplanes" probably, and see
if there's any themed accounts around this, and
then I can borrow their suggested accounts.
So let's see, Airplane Lovers, that's possible.
Airplane Memes probably, wow, that has 500 followers.
Airplane Lovers is a little bit larger.
OK.
And then it shows us ones that are even closer to this, it looks like
a lot of people are obsessed with specific types of airplanes.
It looks like it's going to point us to actual
companies that run airlines, you know, etc.
Oddly enough, that Airplane Memes is probably the most
similar one, but you can use these as jumping off points,
and it's really easy to do, and then you
just have a list of ones to check out.
All right, so that's how you do
it on Instagram itself, in the app.
Easily the best way to do it, just search for keywords,
search for anything you think could be adjacent related,
anything even similar, and then use that suggested feed
once you find something that is similar, and just kind
of fish through that. Unfortunately, Instagram is
not that great for research and pulling things together, so you
kind of have to do the same things over and over again.
The other thing I'd suggest is just by Googling, honestly.
Google can find a lot of Instagram accounts as well.
The way you would do it though is make sure that when
you do search on Google, you do this. You say site
equals, and then you put instagram.com.
OK.
And that's going to limit all of your searches to Instagram.
You can search for lists too.
So a lot of times people publish
top 10 travel accounts on Instagram.
So you could say "travel accounts on Instagram" and
you can probably find, see, well, there's actually tons.
So "20 travel accounts to follow on Instagram" and then
you can kind of go through this and combine that with
the suggested feed if you want to.
Let's see.
OK.
But if you search through using the site equals
trick, what happens is... So we could say
"travel planes" or something, it
will only search on Instagram itself.
So this is, here's the Passenger Shaming account that we talked about before, let's see, Travel Planes Colors, air travel...
So you kind of just have to pick
through this stuff, but it's relatively easy.
Ok, guys, that's it for now.
Put some work into putting together this list, that's going to help you a lot later on, especially when you get to promotion.
But it'll also help you just for understanding what
your competitors do, what the lay of the land looks
like, and they're great for when you're
stuck and you don't know what to post.
You can just go to them and see what's working for them.
OK.
See you next lecture.